# math-104-project

This project involves the application of Markov chains and Markov matrices to create a statistical model for pseudo-random English sentence generation based on text from Dr. Seuss' books. A Markov chain consists of a set of discrete states, denoting a specific state called the start state, and a set of transitions from one discrete state to another. These transition probabilities can be represented in a Markov matrix M, where mij represents the probability of transitioning from state j to state i. 

The Perron-Frobenius Theorem states that if all entries of an n × n matrix A are positive, then it has a unique maximal eigenvalue, and its eigenvector has positive entries. In the case of sentence generation, each state is represented by a word, and transition probability mij is the probability that word i is followed by word j in a sentence. By the Perron-Frobenius Theorem, one would expect that by generating a positive Markov matrix to represent the transition probabilities, u=k Mkv would converge at the equilibrium probability vector of words, represented by equilibrium vector u, for a given text, given any input probability vector v.

This model is designed such that it can be generalized to any inputted text, depending on the text files uploaded. This project applies the sentence generation framework to Dr. Seuss’ books. Using Markov matrices to represent the transition probabilities from one token (word) to another is highly applicable to Dr. Seuss’ books due to the distinctive word patterns and repetitions in those texts, hence this project applies the model to text from Dr. Seuss’ books.
